W-18543699 gen api specs (#464)
mulesoft/docs-code-builder: modules/ROOT/pages/api-ai-create-spec.adoc

Before you start creating your API spec:

* xref:start-acb.adoc[Set up and access the web or desktop IDE].
* Ensure that you have the xref:start-configure-permissions.adoc#permissions[required Anypoint Code Builder permissions].
* Ensure that you have these permissions to use the Anypoint Code Builder Agentforce feature:
** Anypoint Code Builder Developer
** Mule Developer Generative AI User
* Ensure Einstein is enabled in Access Management. For more information, see xref:access-management::enabling-einstein.adoc[Enabling Einstein for Anypoint Platform].
* Log in to Anypoint Code Builder with your Anypoint Platform credentials.
* xref:des-create-api-specs.adoc[Create an API spec project] in Anypoint Code Builder in the supported RAML 1.0 or OAS 3.0 format, and then select a business group. The business group must have the xref:access-agentforce.adoc#agentforce[Agentforce feature enabled]. If you don't have the Agentforce feature after selecting a business group, contact your Anypoint Platform administrator to enable the feature.

== Design an API Spec with AI

To design an API spec with AI, begin by reviewing the starter prompt for guidance on the context the agent needs. 

> . Describe your API spec in the chat by using natural language. The agent prompts you for clarification if it doesn't understand your request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Describe your API spec in the chat. The agent prompts you for clarification if it doesn't understand your request.
```

* Object
* String
* Time only

Optionally, provide a description, format, minimum and maximum length, default value, and example for the header.

*Query Parameter Requirements*

Query parameters must include the name, whether it's required, and one of the following types:

* Array
* Boolean
* Date only
* DateTime
* DateTime only
* File
* nil
* Number
* Object
* String
* Time only 

Optionally, provide a description, format, minimum and maximum length, default value, and example for the query parameter.
====

. Send your message. The agent creates a validated API spec.

[NOTE]
Governance isn't included in the validation.

[start=3]
. Review the spec and continue the conversation if you'd like to make changes.
. Click *Replace* to add the generated API spec to your project. All file content is replaced by the inserted code.
+
You can also copy the generated API spec to your clipboard by clicking *Copy*.

== Give Feedback on Agent Responses

Share your feedback about the agent's response by clicking thumbs up or thumbs down.

== View Conversation History

To view your past conversations, click *Open chat history*. Your last 30 days of conversations show.

== Start a New Chat

> You can only create a new API spec if you have a project open. Click *Create API Spec* from the *New Chat* dropdown to create a new API spec. 

Reviewer 2: And also if you have a project open, and the editor is focused over an API Specification document that is either an OAS 3.0 spec or RAML 1.0 specification. If not, users won't be able to see the icon since it won't be supported.

= Creating API Specs with AI
:page-deployment-options: cloud-ide, desktop-ide

> The Generative API Specification feature unlocks AI capabilities for API design journeys by generating and mocking API specs from natural language. Accessible after creating an API project or via the Open Agentforce icon within a project, it reduces the time spent on design by simplifying the creation of rigid, syntax-heavy specs. The system supports multi-turn conversations and provides validated API specifications.

Reviewer 3: The second sentence is a bit long. Consider breaking it up into two sentences

[[before-you-begin]]
== Before You Begin

Before you start creating your API spec:

* xref:start-acb.adoc[Set up and access the web or desktop IDE].

> * Ensure that you have the xref:start-configure-permissions.adoc#permissions[required Anypoint Code Builder permissions].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Make sure you have the xref:start-configure-permissions.adoc#permissions[required Anypoint Code Builder permissions].
```

Reviewer 3: SF uses "make sure" instead of "ensure".

> * Ensure that you have these permissions to use the Anypoint Code Builder Agentforce feature:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Make sure you have these permissions to use the Anypoint Code Builder Agentforce feature:
```

** Anypoint Code Builder Developer
** Mule Developer Generative AI User

> * Ensure Einstein is enabled in Access Management. For more information, see xref:access-management::enabling-einstein.adoc[Enabling Einstein for Anypoint Platform].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Make sure Einstein is enabled in Access Management. For more information, see xref:access-management::enabling-einstein.adoc[Enabling Einstein for Anypoint Platform].
```

* Log in to Anypoint Code Builder with your Anypoint Platform credentials.
* xref:des-create-api-specs.adoc[Create an API spec project] in Anypoint Code Builder in the supported RAML 1.0 or OAS 3.0 format, and then select a business group. The business group must have the xref:access-agentforce.adoc#agentforce[Agentforce feature enabled]. If you don't have the Agentforce feature after selecting a business group, contact your Anypoint Platform administrator to enable the feature.

== Design an API Spec with AI

To design an API spec with AI, begin by reviewing the starter prompt for guidance on the context the agent needs. 

. Describe your API spec in the chat. The agent prompts you for clarification if it doesn't understand your request.
+

> Include the following required details and consider including optional details to generate a more precise spec:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Include these required details and consider including optional details to generate a more precise spec:
```

+
[%collapsible]
.Base Details
====
Optionally provide the API name, version, and description.
====
+
[%collapsible]
.Security Details
====
Include a required security scheme of type Oauth 1.0, Oauth 2.0, Basic Authentication, Digest Authentication, or Pass Through.

**** For Basic Authentication, Digest Authentication, or Pass Through, specify responses, query parameters, and headers.
**** For Oauth 1.0 or 2.0, specify responses, query parameters, headers, and settings.
***** Settings for Oauth 1.0 can be of type `authorizationUri`, `requestTokenUri`, `tokenCredentialsUri`, or signatures.
***** Settings for Oauth 2.0 can be of type `authorizationUri`, `requestTokenUri`, or `authorizationGrants`.

> The following additional details apply:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These additional details apply:
```

*Header Requirements*

Headers must include the name, whether it's required, and one of the following types:

* Array
* Boolean
* Date only
* DateTime
* DateTime only
* File
* nil
* Number
* Object
* String
* Time only

Optionally, provide a description, format, minimum and maximum length, default value, and example for the header.

*Query Parameter Requirements*

> Query parameters must include the name, whether it's required, and one of the following types:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Query parameters must include the name, whether it's required, and one of these types:
```

* Array
* Boolean
* Date only
* DateTime
* DateTime only
* File
* nil
* Number
* Object
* String
* Time only 

Optionally, provide a description, format, minimum and maximum length, default value, and example for the query parameter.

*Response Requirements*

Responses must include the status code and description.
====
+
[%collapsible]
.Resources and Methods
====
Include a required security scheme of type Oauth 1.0, Oauth 2.0, Basic Authentication, Digest Authentication, or Pass Through.

> The following additional details apply:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These additional details apply:
```

*Resource Requirements*

> Each resource can include one or more of the following methods:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each resource can include one or more of these methods:
```

* GET
* POST
* PUT
* PATCH
* DELETE
* HEAD
* OPTIONS

For GET and HEAD methods, you can include a summary, responses, requests, and query or header parameters.

For POST, PUT, PATCH, and OPTIONS methods, you can include a summary, responses, requests, body, and query or header parameters.

*Response Requirements*

Responses must include the status code and description. Response bodies are optional and can include a description, type, media type, and example.

*Request Requirements*

Requests must include a description and body.

*Header Requirements*

> Headers must include the name, whether it's required, and one of the following types:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Headers must include the name, whether it's required, and one of these types:
```

* Array
* Boolean
* Date only
* DateTime
* DateTime only
* File
* nil
* Number
* Object
* String
* Time only

Optionally, provide a description, format, minimum and maximum length, default value, and example for the header.

*Query Parameter Requirements*

> Query parameters must include the name, whether it's required, and one of the following types:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Query parameters must include the name, whether it's required, and one of these types:
```

* Array
* Boolean
* Date only
* DateTime
* DateTime only
* File
* nil
* Number
* Object
* String
* Time only 

Optionally, provide a description, format, minimum and maximum length, default value, and example for the query parameter.
====

. Send your message. The agent creates a validated API spec.

[NOTE]
Governance isn't included in the validation.

[start=3]
. Review the spec and continue the conversation if you'd like to make changes.
. Click *Replace* to add the generated API spec to your project. All file content is replaced by the inserted code.
+
You can also copy the generated API spec to your clipboard by clicking *Copy*.

== Give Feedback on Agent Responses

Share your feedback about the agent's response by clicking thumbs up or thumbs down.

== View Conversation History

To view your past conversations, click *Open chat history*. Your last 30 days of conversations show.

== Start a New Chat

> You can only create a new API spec if you have a project open and that's in the supported RAML 1.0 or OAS 3.0 format. Click *Create API Spec* from the *New Chat* dropdown to create a new API spec.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can only create a new API spec if you have a project open and it's in the supported RAML 1.0 or OAS 3.0 format. Click *Create API Spec* from the *New Chat* dropdown to create a new API spec.
```
